What is Anthropology?

Anthropology is the study of humans and human diversity. Anthropology provides
knowledge to people to help understand the different cultures and diveristy
that exist in our world.
    A better understanding of our cultures helps for better communication

How it started?

18th-19th century. European colonial expansions was a stepping stone for new
contacts with different people from different parts of the world

What Anthropologists do?

Study the transmission of diseases, promote diversity training in big companies
and schools, and also study human origins. Anthropologists do work ranging from
small studying people in small villages in the amazon to studying immigration
patterns in a city as big as New York.

How Anthropologists work?

To understand the many cultures and many different peoples on this earth, the
work of anthropologists is done through what is known as ethnographic fieldwork.

Ethnographic FieldWork:

Ethnographic fieldwork is a method of research used by cultural anthropologists
in which they live for periods of time with a group of people to understand
their lives.

Through this method of research, anthropologists participate in the activities
of a group of people, take notes, photographs, and interview people from the local
setting. Therefore anthropologists learn about the gender, race, ethnicity, religion,
kinship, economy, and politics of those people.

Culture:

Culture is a big focus in Anthropology. Many groups of people that Anthropologists
study have their own culture. Some people belong to multiple cultures. This can
be due to patterns of immigration and the fact that people have the ability to learn
the culture they are exposed to.

What is Culture?

Anthropologists describe culture as a system of knowledge, beliefs, behavioral
patterns, institutions that are created, learned, and shared by a group of people.

Some examples of your culture could be, the time in which you eat dinner,
taking showers once a day, the language you speak, the way that you dress, the
food that you eat.

Culture can also be though of as a way of life for a group of people.

Humans aren't born having a culture they belong to.
Cultural patterns are learned and thought from other people who exist within a
culture.

When culture is learned, this is known as enculturation.

All cultures have norms that the group of people may associate to. Some norms
within a culture could be what age you are allowed to get married, or what time
you should pray.

Cultures have value:

values are what people that belong to a culture believe is important and or true.

One example is the importance of respecting your elders, as they are said to be
wiser and more knowledgeable.

Cultures have Symbols:

Symbols are anything that stands for something else.

Language is a complicated set of symbols(words) that represent anything from
emotions to objects. Other symbols include religious texts such as the bible, or
Quran.

Cultural based Mental Maps of reality:

A mental map is how the human brain compresses large quantities of data to make
faster connections  with experiences and the large quantities of data.
An example of creating a mental map is the qualification of people under categories
of race.

Language:

Language belongs to the linguistic field of anthropology.
Anthropologists study language to understand the roles it play in peoples lives.
For example, knowing some languages could help one learn to communicate throughout
different cultures and therefore learn that culture.


What is language?

Language is a system of communication organized by rules that uses symbols such
as words, sounds, and gestures to convey information.
Language also consists of paralanguage which is a set of noises which include
laughs, cries, sighs, and yells.

Language is not set, and is always changing.

Language is described on the bases of productivity and displacement.

Productivity: The ability to combine multiple words to invent new word combinations

Displacement: The ability to refer to objects not present immediately or situations
occurring in the past of future.

Origins.

Archeologists have gathered evidence that points to language use as far back as
50,000 years ago.

To fully have a grasp on any language people have ti understand the kinesics, or the
correlation between body movements and communication. One example is nod
which can be interpreted as a greeting or an understanding.

Language can differ based on gender and class. Research on the mixed-sex communication
shows that mean try to retain dominance throughout a conversation like commands,
challenge, and criticize,  while women are likely to ask, provide support, and less
likely interrupt a speaker.

People of different classes ten to use vernacular that is perceived as more formal
and therefore thought to be more educated, which the French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu
stipulated that having a formal language skill can be turned to greater financial
capital such as higher wages.

Race:

Race is a flawed system of classification, with no biological basis, that uses certain
physical characteristics to divide human population into supposedly discrete groups.

Genetically, the only race that exists amongst humans is the the human race.
Anthropologists view race as a framework of categories established to separate the
human population.

The framework of race was originally created by Western Europeans during their
global expansion starting in the 1400s.
Europeans put colonized people into an "international hierarchy of races, colors,
religions, and cultures"(Trouillot 1994, 146).

Today the bases for human diversity is based on race, as the framework for the
categorization of people through race has been happening since the start of European
colonization.

The frameworks of race has lead to racism which has lead to unequal distribution
of power, resources, and opportunities, based on perceived differences amongst
groups of people.


For human physical diversity, there are two factors that a Physical Anthropologist
looks into, which is the genotype and the phenotype.

Genotype is the genetic factors that are inherited, and phenotype refers to physical
characteristic of an animal that is due to interaction with the environment.

Phenotypes such as skin color are not at all related to a person's cognitive
ability.

Being that race is a flawed system of classification, in Brazil people are racially
classified into hundreds of categories. Therefore in Brazil you could be part of
one race and in the US part of another.


Could you name the different races in the US?

Rascism:

Classifications of race lead to racism:

Racism is the system of power that draws on the human constructed classification
of race to rank people as superior or inferior, allocate resources, opportunities,
privileges differently.

Racism can be constructed through institutions such as segregation in schools, or
individual racism when people judge other people's abilites based on the persons
said race.
